---
title: TERP & THIOL
sidebar_position: 3
---
Here's an updated version of the text:

**TERP & THIOL: Native Tokens of Terp Network**

TERP and THIOL are the two native tokens of the Terp Network. Initially, THIOL was introduced as the native fee-token, while TERP was designated as the native staking token. Over time, their roles have evolved to encompass a broader range of functions.

## `$TERP`

The $TERP token is a governance token for shaping the future of the protocol, including every implementation detail. $TERP's initial use cases include:

- Staking to secure network consensus
- Voting on governance proposals
- Utilization in IBC supported ecosystems
- Integration with smart contract messages
- Vesting to another address
- Sending to another address
- Creating new tokens via the token-factory module

## `$THIOL`

The $THIOL token is a reward for validators who actively participate in the consensus process of each newly minted block. The amount of $THIOL minted each year decreases.

The initial use cases for $THIOL include:

- Paying for on-chain fees
- Granting fees to another address
- Utilization in IBC supported ecosystems
- Integration with smart contract messages
- Sending to another address


## Your Personal Stash

These tokens are your gateway to interacting with the Terp Network. They enable you to participate in governance, validate transactions, and engage with the network's ecosystem.


## [Distribution](/overview/genesis/airdrop-and-distribution)

There have been two major token distribution events for Terp Network. 

### [Genesis Distribution](/overview/genesis/airdrop/airdrop-distribution)

*Initial ownership allocation*

### [Headstash Airdrop](/overview/genesis/headstash)

*Multi-community airdrop event*
