---
title: Privacy Policy 
sidebar_position: 8
---

Last updated: November 14th, 2023

This Privacy Policy describes the policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of Your information when You use the Service and tells You about Your privacy rights and how the law protects You.

We use Your Personal data to provide and improve the Service. By using the Service, You agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy.

## Interpretation & Definitions

#### Interpretation
The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural.

#### Definitions
For the purposes of this Privacy Policy:

- Cookies are small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing the details of Your browsing history on that website among its many uses.
- Device means any device that can access the Service such as a computer, a mobile phone or a digital tablet.
- The DAO (referred to as either “the DAO, “We”, “Us”; or “Our” in this document) refers to The TerpNET Foundation DAO.
- Personal Data is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual.
- Service refers to the main website, and community dashboard.
- Usage Data refers to data collected automatically, either generated by the use of the Service or from the Service infrastructure itself for example, the duration of a page visit.
- Website refers to the applicable websites, terp.network for our main website, and dash.terp.network for the community dashboard.
- You means the individual accessing or using the Service, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable.

### Collecting and Using Your Personal Data


#### Types of Data Collected

#### *Usage Data*

Usage Data is collected automatically when using the Service. This data is gathered in the logs of the servers used to host the Service. Usage Data may include information such as Your Device's Internet Protocol address e.g. IP address, browser type, browser version and the time and date of Your visit.

When You access the Service by or through a mobile device, We may collect certain information automatically, including, but not limited to, the type of mobile device You use, Your mobile device unique ID, the IP address of Your mobile device, Your mobile operating system and the type of mobile Internet browser You use.


#### *Use of Your Personal Data*
| Service                                          | Type of Personal Data                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Purpose of processing                                                                                                                                                                                            | Basis in law                                                                                                                                                         | Retention period                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Website                                        |The processed Usage Data includes: the type of mobile device You use, Your mobile device unique ID, Your mobile operating system, protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser type, browser version and the time and date of Your visit    | <p>To perform the Service(making the digital connection that is necessary to have your device communicate with the server and sending the requested information to your device (e.g. website images))</p> | <p>Necessary for the performance of the Service. Provision of this data is a necessary requirement within the meaning of Article 13(2) under point e GDPR.</p> | For a maximum of 1 month                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

### Transfer of Your Personal Data
The TerpNET Foundation DAO takes all reasonably possible steps to ensure that Your Personal Data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy and that no transfer of Your Personal Data will take place to another organization or another country unless there are adequate controls in place for private and secure handling of Your Personal Data.

The Usage Data and Communication Data are stored on servers that vary in location. These servers are hosted by independent companies & entities. However: please note that the nature of the service hosting does not permit these server operators to directly access the data stored.

The USA have certain provisions in law that afford their investigative authorities a right to access data that is processed by USA-based companies or their subsidiaries, even if such data is processed outside the USA. One such provision is Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act ("FISA", Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a law that regulates foreign intelligence and counterintelligence of the United States). Another relevant provision is the so-called "Cloud Act" (Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act), which applies specifically to USA-based companies in the telecommunications sector and "remote computing services" (which includes cloud hosting providers).

If You find it important to take 0% chance that Your encrypted Usage Data might be accessed by USA government agencies, it must be advised to You to not use the Service.

###  Your rights regarding Your Personal Data

You have the right to ask for an overview of the Personal Data that is processed about You (“right of access”). Please note that the Usage Data that is processed is only subject to data protection rules because this data could theoretically be traced back to individuals, if one were to combine it with additional information gathered elsewhere. In the normal Service operations, this is not normally done, so generally Usage Data cannot be traceed back to You. If You use Your right of access, the TerpNET Foundation DAO will show You the Personal Data that we can connect to You without actively gathering additional information.

For Personal Data that is processed on the basis of Your consent, You have the right to withdraw Your consent at any time. Withdrawing Your consent does not affect the lawfulness of processing based on Your consent before its withdrawal. You have the right to object on grounds relating to Your particular situation.

No data is processed further than data automatically generated when accessing the Services. Should it ever turn out that Personal Data is processed about You is incorrect or unlawful to be processed, then You have the right to have Your Personal Data rectified or erased, or have its processing restricted.

Please note that certain control questions or request that You provide identification may be made, when You invoke a right regarding Personal Data. You have to be authenticated as the data subject.

If You are unhappy with the way Your Personal Data is processed or the a request to exercise Your rights is handled, please tell the TerpNET Foundation DAO.


### Disclosure of Your Personal Data
*Law Enforcement*
Under certain circumstances, it may be required to disclose Your Personal Data to third parties. For example: if we are required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency).

*Other Legal Requirements*
Personal Data may be disclosed to third parties in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to:
- Comply with legal obligation
- Protect the personal saftey of the public
- Assess issues of legal liability and/or defend against claims
- Assess and ensure the security of information, including Personal Data

#### Security
The security of Your Personal Data is important to The TerpNET Foundation DAO, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. While The TerpNET Foundation DAO strives to use commercially acceptable means to protect Your Personal Data, The TerpNET Foundation DAO cannot guarantee its absolute security.

#### Links to Other Websites
The Services may contain links to other websites that are not operated by The TerpNET Foundation DAO. If You click on a third party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. The TerpNET Foundation DAO strongly advise You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit.

The TerpNET Foundation DAO has no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services.

#### Changes to this Privacy Policy

The TerpNET Foundation DAO may update The Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify You of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page.

We will let You know, prior to the change becoming effective and update the “Last updated” date at the top of this Privacy Policy.

You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page.


#### Contact Us
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, You can contact us by emailing `terp.network@skiff.com`