---
title: 2. compiling a contract
sidebar_position: 4
---

In this section, we will download the code for a sample contract and compile it into a wasm binary executable.


## Prerequisites

Please refer to the [Setting up environment](/cosmwasm/getting-started/set-up-environment) guide to install the required dependencies before proceeding.

## Download contract
Begin by downloading the [cw-contracts](https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts) repository. You will be compiling the nameservice contract.

Clone the repository:
```
git clone https://github.com/InterWasm/cw-contracts
cd cw-contracts
git checkout main
cd contracts/nameservice
```

## Compile contract

#### Compile using cargo
Execute the following command to compile the contract:
```bash
cargo wasm
```
Upon compilation, the file `target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/cw_nameservice.wasm` should be generated. The file size is approximately 1.9 MB, indicating that it is a release build but has not yet been stripped of all unnecessary code. To store the contract on-chain, optimization is required. See the [Optimized compilation](#optimize-using-rust-optimizer) section below for instructions on optimizing a contract.

## Optimized compilation

#### Optimize using cargo
The following command should give an optimized contract that can be stored on chain:
```bash
RUSTFLAGS='-C link-arg=-s' cargo wasm
```

#### Optimize using rust-optimizer
:::info 
You will need [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed in order to run **rust-optimizer**.
:::
Navigate to the project root and run the following command:
```
docker run --rm -v "$(pwd)":/code \
  --mount type=volume,source="$(basename "$(pwd)")_cache",target=/code/target \
  --mount type=volume,source=registry_cache,target=/usr/local/cargo/registry \
  cosmwasm/rust-optimizer:0.12.12
```
This command will optimize the **.wasm** file and generate an optimized **.wasm** file in the **artifacts** directory.
