---
title: Introduction
sidebar_position: 1
---


[Terp Network's Developer CLI](./developer-cli) is a command-line tool for working with smart contracts. The CLI functions as a wrapper around **rustc**, **cargo**, **terpd** and **cosmwasm-rust-optimizer**. Think of it as a user friendly version of **terpd** with support for compiling Rust. You can find the Terp Developer CLI's github repository [here](https://github.com/terpnetwork/terp-cli).

There are three core goals of the CLI:

- Speed up development
- Deploy, connect and interact with contracts on Terp
- Encourage security and best practices for developers

Go to the [Developer CLI page](./developer-cli) to find a list of available CLI commands.

#### The Future of Terp CLI

At a future date, Terp CLI will require the installation of less dependencies and will evolve away from wrapping other binaries with user friendly syntax. This will be achieved through the development of an Terp Light Client, and a Local Blockchain Utility.

#### Terp Light Client

The Terp Light Client will be developed to replace the dependency on **terpd** for interacting with Terp nodes.

#### Local Blockchain Utility

The Local Blockchain Utility will start a local Terp blockchain with pre-funded accounts. It will operate on an unexposed network allowing developers to quickly fire up a personal Terp blockchain to run tests, execute commands, or inspect contract state while controlling how the chain operates.


## Terp Daemon / Terpd

The **terpd** binary is the core implementation of the Terp Network protocol, and you can find its github repository [here](https://github.com/terpnetwork/terp-core). It leverages the [Cosmos SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk) and [CosmWasm](https://github.com/CosmWasm/cosmwasm) to reward validators and creators for their contributions to the network. The command-line interface runs a full-node of Terp Network and provides utilities for chain genesis, account management (keys), validators, nodes, queries and transactions.

#### SDK Modules

Go to the [Terpd CLI Page](./daemon) for a full list of the available commands.

## cosm.js

[CosmJS](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmjs) is the Swiss Army knife to power JavaScript based client solutions ranging from Web apps/explorers over browser extensions to server-side clients like faucets/scrapers in the Cosmos ecosystem.

"Cosm" is short for Cosmos and "JS" is short for runs everywhere – we actually develop in TypeScript.

## CosmWasm

[CosmWasm](https://github.com/cosmwasm/cosmwasm) is a framework that allows developers to write multi-chain smart contracts using any programming language which compiles to Wasm. It is written as a module that can plug into the Cosmos SDK, making it easy for deploying Cosmos blockchains that utilize Wasm smart contracts.

Disregarding code pertaining to specific chains, CosmWasm contracts deploy and behave interchangeably among blockchains running the <a href="https://github.com/CosmWasm/wasmd" target="_blank" >`wasmd`</a> binary. Terp tooling provides modules for programming Terp smart contracts in Rust, but in future will support Wasm development in both Rust and Golang.